What kind of program is Git?
A distributed version control system.

How do version control programs like Git differ from saves in a text editor?
Text editor saves the latest content changes to a file. e.g. PersonX buys a different fruit each week, saving the name of fruit he just bought into fruit.txt

Version control keeps a revision of all changes to a file(files) over time. e.g. PersonX buys a different fruit each week but keeps a history of all versions of fruit.txt, so he remember all the fruit he tasted.


What is the advantage of version control softwares over text editor?
VC keeps a project history consisting of:
When a change was made
Why a change was made.
What changed.
Revert parts or whole of a project to an older version.


Types of version control systems?
Local
Centralized
Distributed

How do local version control systems like RCS work?
Patch files store differences between files.
Specific versions of project recreated by summing patches. 

How do centralized version control systems like CVS work?
A master repository of full project history is contained inside a central server.
Clients retrieve the latest snapshot of project from server.
Client commits changes directly to master repository.

What are the advantages of CVCS over local version control?
Clients do not have to localize an entire database of the full project history.
Submitting changes to a central server enables collaboration between all clients.

How do distributed version control systems like Git work?
Client locally mirror a master repository from a server.
Each client has access to full project history instead of just snapshots of versions.
Client push changes to local repository.
Clients review changes in their local repository before sets of changes gets merged into master repository.


What are the advantages of DVCS over CVCS?
Each group with a local repository can work offline from the main server.
No single point of failure in the form of central server because each client can access full project history without central server.
In event of server breakdown, full revision of project can be be restored to a new server from any client with local repository.
Specific versions can be retrieved quicker from local than central server.
Reduced merge conflict through hierachical model changes in local repositories are reviewed before being merged with master repository.


Name and describe the 3 file states of a git.
Modified: File changed but not committed to database.
Staged: File changed and set to be a part of the next commit snapshot.
Committed: Data of the file has been committed to database.




Name and describe the 3 sections of a git project.
Working tree: Extracting a version of project from .git repository to local disk. 
Staging area: A file in .git repository containing a list of files staged for next commit.
.git directory: Contains database and metadata about project. 


Describe the steps in a basic git workflow:
1) Modify files in working tree
2) Send staged files into staging area.
3) Commit files from staging area into a snapshot of the .git repository.


What is the difference between a fork and branch?

A branch is a temporary splitting of project for developing new features. 
Usually branches merge back to origin/master. No new project is produced.

A fork creates a new project independent from a parent project and the two may never converge.









