 git config --global core.editor "code --wait"
 # A command which makes vscode the default editor instead of vim for
 # multiline git commit messages
 # use 'git commit' to open vscode up



Why aren't HTML and CSS programming languages?

They cannot perform calculations and logic.


Semantic HTML
Using the appropriate element for contents.

Why is semantic HTML good practice?
SEO
Uers with assistive technology like screen readers.



What is a doctype declaration for?
Inform Browser what version of HTML to render the page in.


What does index.html represent?
The homepage of a website.


Why have an index.html?
Web servers by default directs visitors to index page.
Not having one causes exceptions.


The head element contains metadata. It should not contain elements for displaying content on webpage.


Why is it important to specify charset encoding correctly?
Ensure logorams from other languages are correctly displayed by browser. 

An attribute has 2 parts:
Name
Value

What are absolute links?
Links to other websites on remote servers.
Contains protocol + domain name of destination.

Write the basic structure of an absolute URL
protocol://domain/path

What are relative links?
Links to webpages within own website.
Because of this, relative links do not contain domain name.
The path is relative to the webpage containing the link.


What are the four main image formats that you can use for images on the web?

jpg
png
gif
svg

Use case for jpg images?
Diverse colour palette and gradients without increasing file size.

Disadvantages of jpg images?
Can't display transparent pixels.


Use case for png images?
Best for icons, logos, technical diagrams etc.
No limits to colour palette.
No limitations on transparent pixels.

Disadvantages of png images?
Unsuitable for photos or animation because file size would be too large.

Use case for gif images?
Simple animations.

Disadvantages of gif images?
Limited colour palette hence unsuitable for photos.

Lacks high level of detail on transparent background 
because transparent pixel is a binary option, not continuous.

What is SVG?
A vector-based graphics format.

Use case for svg images?
Responsive design
because it can scale to any dimension without losing quality.

Disadvantages of svg images?
Unsuitable for images with lots of text. 
