Four ages of internet

1) Connectivity. Search engine and emails. 1980s
2) Networked Economy. Digitalised supply chains. 1990s
3) Collaboration. Digitalised interpesonal interactions. 2000s
4) IoT. Connection of people, process, data, things. 2010s.



Cisco intellgent network makes up the software, hardware and platforms for IoT.



Four pillars of IoT:
People. Wearable devices
Process. Optimise connectivity between other pillars.
Data. Derivative of people and things. Analytics offer data-driven decision making.
Things. Smart devices.

Three types of connection in IoE:
P2P people to people
M2P machine to people
M2M machine to machine


Attributes of a IoE-ready business:
Hyper-awareness: Sensors on products to monitor customer sentiment in real time.
Predictive: Data anlytics to forecast future trends and behaviours.
Agility: Achieve competitive differentiation through faster responses than competitors to market trends.

Hosts: Computing devices in a network participating in communication.
converged networks: transfers different media to different devices over same communication channel and network structure. i.e. phone, TV and broadband

End device: Source or destination of data transmitted over the network.
Server: A type of end device that provides information to client.
Client: A type of end device makes requests to and displays information from server.

Intermediary devices: Devices interconnecting end devices and manages data flow in the network.
Internetwork: Network formed by intermediary devices connecting multiple networks.
Examples of intermediary network devices: firewalls, routers, internet access points.

Processes in an intermediary network:
permit or deny flow of data for security
notify devices of errors 
classify and direct data according to Quality of Services (QoS) priorities.
Retransmit data along alternate pathways when there is a link failure.

The medium (fibre optics vs wireless) for network should be decided by:
distance to trasnmit data
environment for the installation
size of data and latency


Size of networks:
LAN. Local Area Network. Limited coverage area. High speed bandwidth to all computing devices on the network.
WAN. Wide Area Network. Geographical area coverage. Consists of multiple LAN. Owned by commercial or government entity. Link speed between LANs slower than Link speeds within LANs.
